# Askbay
This is a web application used for solving student query it is made with a of the best UI experience making it very useful. We have added 
Introduction
ASKBAY is a site where university students may learn and discuss what they've learned. It's a place where you can ask questions and get responses from people who have unique perspectives and answers. Our effort will assist all college students in obtaining answers.

The internet still does not have access to the great bulk of human knowledge. The majority of it is either stored as experience in people's minds or in books and documents that only professionals have access to. Despite the fact that the internet is used by over a billion people, just a small fraction of them contribute their knowledge to it. We intend to democratise access to all types of information, from politics to painting, food to computing, etymology to experiences, so that anybody may learn anything.. 

Our goal is to share and increase the world's knowledge, and we're putting together a world class team to help us.

Our project will help all the university students to get there questions solved from peers and professors free of cost . 

Our vision is to connect all the university students so as to make a strong network which will help students solve a lot of problems very easily without any problem.

We are trying to tackle and answer all the questions from the students, especially the shift from school to the college itself is a big drastic change in student's life because many of them start aiming towards their career, so to contribute to their professional life, we have the inspiration of this project as a trustable platform to answer and guide students to their path of success in their professional life and hence create a professional and healthy environment for students.


1.1 Problem definition: 
Students at the university come from many backgrounds. Every kid has a million questions in their heads, but they don't know who to ask or where to ask them. So we're assisting students by creating a forum where they can share their concerns about any issue they're facing.
                                                             












                                                           Chapter 2

                                               Literature survey

“ASKBAY” is a question and answer website where students go to find information. Every piece of content on the site is generated by users, meaning it is created, edited, and organized by the same student community that uses the website.

Comparing the ASKBAY to a real-life product and our inspiration “Quora”. 

Quora is a Q&A “social platform” and knowledge-based platform. People look for information, tips, and facts and share experiences with others on the website. While a majority of the content is in a Q&A format, there are blogs and reviews being written on Quora as well.

 Whereas ASKBAY is a Q&A platform for university students and faculty only. 

Twitter is an ongoing many-to-many conversation, fractured into small chunks. You can imagine on Twitter that you are in a large room, filled with people, all talking, and some people are having multiple conversations at once. It’s a high-mental bandwidth-consuming platform, but very valuable if you can grok it. 

The only commonality the three platforms have is the fact that you access them both on a computer or phone. After that, there’s almost no overlap.
ASKBAY has some qualities that those other research tools don’t:
●	It allows users to create social networks and follow topics that interest them. 
●	It focuses on high-quality questions and answers. 
●	It enables users to vote on answers to highlight the most accurate information possible.
●	It gives people with correct answers a verification mark for building trust.
●	It allows people to connect academically. 

2.1 Objective:

●	 Trying to tackle all the questions from all the university students. 
●	 Building a platform where students can raise their voices 
●	 ASKBAY allows students to merge similar questions.
●	Allow students to share their expertise and experience. 
●	 Students can interact with their seniors for guidance. 
●	Build a platform where students can connect with other students who have the same interests
2.2 Timeline and Task Definition:
In the Development phase of ASKBAY, we divided ourselves to tackle different areas to get the most out of the team.
2.2.1 Task Definition
  Yash Sharma: 
●	Planning and strategy
●	Front end
●	Content Writer 
●	Ppt

Kartik Chahal:
●	Coding
●	Logo designing
●	Documentation

 Lovish Bir:
●	Research
●	Coding
●	Charts Representation

Rohit Kumar:
●	Debugging
●	Documentation
●	Research

Nishant Kumar Lakda:
●	Testing
●	Analysis
●	Quality control






2.2.2 Timeline of Project
                          
                                       
 


Chapter 3
 Design flow/Process:-

3.1 Concept Art:

3.1.1 Concept design of login page -
   
 
                               
Login page:

Login Page A login page is a web page or an entry page to a website that requires user identification and authentication, regularly performed by entering a username and password combination. Logins may provide access to an entire site or part of a website.

 It is an integral part of computer security procedures. A login generally requires the user to enter two pieces of information, first a user name and then a password.
3.1.2 Concept art design of the Main page:
 
                                                            “Main/Home- page”
 
A Main/home page (also written as homepage) is the main web page of a website. The term can also refer to one or more pages always shown in a web browser when the application starts up. In this case, it is also known as the start page.


Concept art design of the Question page:

Concept design of question page, where the student can ask the question 











3.1.2 Final Design of the website with navigation: -

 


 


 



 

 



 

                    
                                                 














                                                 Chapter 4
                                     Results analysis and validation
 The website is now online, and we are pleased to announce that our team has completed the website (our product), and we are now ready to unleash our project into the real world in its entirety.
 
We can't talk about the outcomes of a project that involved creating a website without talking about its features.
4.1 Features of ASKBAY:
1)     Question and Answers: We were able to effectively build this feature since it was the one we were primarily focused on creating.
 2)     Accounts and profile pics:  With help of knowledge from the internet and books we were able to implement this feature.
3)     Authentication Mark: We have successfully managed to add this feature in are website for trusted users by the help of our project mentors
4)  Anonymously Q/A : - We were successful in adding the function of anonymously asking questions, however we did not see the value in adding the feature of anonymously responding questions.
4.2 Validation:                                                                                         
 Our supervisor validated our goods on a regular basis & if there was anything we learnt over that period, it was collaboration and debugging. 
We first heard the phrase "debugging" in person, and what we meant was that we encountered faults and mistakes on our website during the development process. 
And, we must state, validation is the point in the product development process when we can identify our flaws and possibilities.
We had it coming as we started validation with supervisors and sometimes within team members, and we had to admit we built our website "ASKBAY" very differently from Quora, and the reason is that we don't want the users to feel bad about the UI and UX; we want the users to have a smooth flow of usage with the website, and we purposefully tried to implement different animations and an easy to use interface that looks attractive and functional. We all had a lot of ideas and wanted to think about and work on each one, but we had one constraint with the growing number of ideas in our heads. Keeping in mind the constraints of time, we were able to accomplish our assignment successfully.

                                                



                                                     Chapter 5
                                          Conclusion and future work
 5.1 Conclusion
We want to end this project on a positive note for all of the team members and supervisors because we built what we wanted and what we loved.

And we strongly believe that our project to provide information to all students (especially freshmen) should not be completed at any point; there is always room for improvement, and we have a very detailed plan for the work we will do after this report, which we are planning as future upgrades and project work.

5.2 Future work

 First and foremost, we had our own thoughts about how to expand this project:
Future features that we want to add ( we were talking about features since those were the key features that will decide the flow of the website with all users and decide the scope of the website)

1)	Chat Bot: 
2)	We were planning to include a chatbot, which will answer simple and repeated questions and also guide students with new changes in their academics, such as guiding a student to complete his gp before it is too late, etc., because we know the students are in a similar situation and will most likely ask the same questions individually.
3)	Video Conference: 
We need the presence of all interested students whenever we need to create a group discussion about a specific topic or something going on at the university, which is not always possible, so we created a video conference option, no website, which can be used to create instantaneous group discusions with students, and it is a much more feasible idea because we only need their online presence, the meetings will be more frequent and fruitful.
4)	AI Enabled Answer verification system : - 
We don't know whether this is feasible, but we'll do our best to make it so. We're Aiml students, so we'll surely attempt to push the boundaries and create this method for right answers..
